Update "About Quality of Service settings" Wiki Page (#661)
ros2/ros2_documentation: source/Concepts/About-Quality-of-Service-Settings.rst

  * *Manual by topic*: the system will consider the publisher to be alive for another “lease duration” if it manually asserts that it is still alive (via a call to the publisher API).

* Lease Duration

  * *Duration*: the maximum period of time a publisher has to indicate that it is alive before the system considers it to have lost liveliness (losing liveliness could be an indication of a failure).

For each of the policies that is not a duration, there is also the option of “system default”, which uses the default of the underlying middleware.
For each of the policies that is a duration, there also exists a “default” option that means the duration is unspecified, which the underlying middleware will usually interpret as an infinitely long duration.

Comparison to ROS 1
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The “history” and “depth” policies in ROS 2 combine to provide functionality akin to the queue size in ROS 1.

The “reliability” policy in ROS 2 is akin to the use of either UDPROS (only in ``roscpp``) for “best effort”, or TCPROS (ROS 1 default) for “reliable”.
Note however that even the reliable policy in ROS 2 is implemented using UDP, which allows for multicasting if appropriate.

> The “durability” policy combined with a depth of 1 provides functionality similar to that of “latching” subscribers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The “durability” policy "transient local", combined with any depth, provides functionality similar to that of “latching” publishers.
```

Author: Done.

* System default

  This uses the RMW implementation’s default values for all of the policies.
  Different RMW implementations may have different defaults.

`Click here <https://github.com/ros2/rmw/blob/master/rmw/include/rmw/qos_profiles.h>`__ for the specific policies in use for the above profiles.
The settings in these profiles are subject to further tweaks, based on the feedback from the community.

QoS compatibilities
-------------------

**Note:** This section refers to publisher and subscriptions but the content applies to service servers and clients in the same manner.

QoS profiles may be configured for publishers and subscriptions independently.
A connection between a publisher and a subscription is only made if the pair has compatible QoS profiles.

QoS profile compatibility is determined based on a “Request vs Offered” model.
Subscriptions *request* a QoS profile that is the “minimum quality” that it is willing to accept, and publishers *offer* a QoS profile that is the “maximum quality” that it is able to provide.

> Connections are only made if the every policy of the requested QoS profile is not more stringent than that of the offered QoS profile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Connections are only made if every policy of the requested QoS profile is not more stringent than that of the offered QoS profile.
```

Author: Done.

> Connections are only made if the every policy of the requested QoS profile is not more stringent than that of the offered QoS profile.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if there's any benefit to saying "not more stringent" as opposed to "less stringent" -- if there is, ignore this
```suggestion
Connections are only made if every policy of the requested QoS profile is less stringent than that of the offered QoS profile.
```

Author: Hmm, I think it's because we need to convey "less or same", so "not more" might be more ergonomic than something like "less or similarly" when there is the "than" preposition that follows "stringent".

> The less strict of the two policies will be the one used for the connection, and it is referred to as the “actual QoS” policy.

Reviewer: We should probably mention that all connections coming out of a publisher don't necessarily have the same QoS - meaning the publisher has a maximum offer, but can form differing connections based on requests.

I saw at one point the misconception that when you requested a "different" qos profile from a publisher, that it somehow "switched qos profiles", which isn't quite right conceptually - the publisher's offer stays the same.

I just realized that "actual QoS" is a different concept in the `rmw` API and just seems to mean "whatever SYSTEM_DEFAULT resolved to" - we should probably remove that.  https://github.com/ros2/rmw/blob/master/rmw/include/rmw/rmw.h#L660

Reviewer: Also, it may be more precise to say "the subscription's request, if compatible with the offer, will be the qos profile of the connection" - since it will always be the less strict if the request is compatible.

Author: I am now hesitant on the pushing the idea of "QoS profile of the connection". It gives off a connotation that there is a synchronization of behavior between the publisher and subscription. And if there are multiple subscriptions with different QoS profiles, there would be confusion as to which subscription's QoS profile would the publisher synchronize its behavior.

I did some experimentation and found that there is no change in behavior. If the publisher's offered deadline period is *x* and the matched subscription's requested deadline period is *2x*, their deadline missed callbacks are still triggered every *x* and *2x* intervals respectively. Then what is the point of the "QoS profile of the connection" (granted that although a deadline missed callback triggering at every *x* is still valid behavior for a QoS profile whose deadline period is *2x*, it would need an unnecessarily verbose explanation)? I think we can just stop at whether a connection will be made or not.

Reviewer: ok - feels like we dive into implementation details, we can avoid making any hard statements about the exact behavior, just that a connection is made if it's compatible

The following tables show the compatibility of the different policy settings and the result:

*Compatibility of reliability QoS policies:*

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Publisher
     - Subscription
     - Connection

>      - Actual QoS Policy

Reviewer: Based on the re-realization about the "actual" terminology - we should switch this back to "Resulting Connection" or something

Author: Done.

     - Yes
     - Transient local

> *Compatibility of deadline QoS policies:*

Reviewer 2: There might be some value in adding a simple key, maybe just for the tables that use symbols or maybe for all the entire table section. Something like
> _x, y_ = arbitrary custom value
> ● = undefined (?)

Author: I have added a short description of *x* and *y* and removed appearances of *●*.

   * - Automatic
     - Automatic
     - Yes
     - Automatic
   * - Automatic
     - Manual by node
     - No
     - -
   * - Automatic
     - Manual by topic
     - No
     - -
   * - Manual by node
     - Automatic
     - Yes
     - Automatic
   * - Manual by node
     - Manual by node
     - Yes
     - Manual by node
   * - Manual by node
     - Manual by topic
     - No
     - -
   * - Manual by topic
     - Automatic
     - Yes
     - Automatic
   * - Manual by topic
     - Manual by node
     - Yes
     - Manual by node
   * - Manual by topic
     - Manual by topic
     - Yes
     - Manual by topic

*Compatibility of lease duration QoS policies:*

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Publisher
     - Subscription
     - Connection
     - Actual QoS Policy
   * - Default
     - Default
     - Yes
     - Infinite
   * - Default
     - *x*
     - No
     - -
   * - *x*
     - Default
     - Yes
     - *x*
   * - *x*
     - *x*
     - Yes
     - *x*
   * - *x*
     - *y* (where *y* > *x*)
     - Yes
     - *y*
   * - *x*
     - *y* (where *y* < *x*)
     - No
     - -

In order for a connection to be made, all of the policies that affect compatibility must be compatible.

> That is for example, even if a requested and offered QoS profile pair has compatible reliability QoS policies, but they have incompatible durability QoS policies, a connection will still not be made.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, even if a requested and offered QoS profile pair has compatible reliability QoS policies, but they have incompatible durability QoS policies, a connection will still not be made.
```

Author: Done.

When connections are not made, no messages will be passed between the publisher and subscription.

> There are mechanisms to detect this situation, which will be covered in a later section below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are mechanisms to detect this situation, which will be covered in a later section.
```

Author: Done.

Comparison to ROS 1
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Historically in ROS 1, any publisher and subscriber with the same message type on the same topic would be connected.

Reviewer 2: I might be misunderstanding the context but it seems like you changed every other "subscriber" to "subscription"; maybe you missed this one?
```suggestion
Historically in ROS 1, any publisher and subscription with the same message type on the same topic would be connected.
```

Author: I was trying to use "subscriber" when referencing ROS 1, but "subscription" when referring to ROS 2.

The possibility of incompatible requested and offered QoS profiles is something new to be aware of when using ROS 2.

QoS events
----------

Some QoS policies have possible events related to them.

> Developers may provide each publisher and subscription callback functions that are triggered by these QoS events and handle them in a way they see fit, similar to how messages received on a topic are handled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Developers may provide each publisher and subscription with callback functions that are triggered by these QoS events and handle them in a way they see fit, similar to how messages received on a topic are handled.
```

Author: Done.

The following are the possible QoS events that developers may subscribe to:

> * Offered deadline missed

Reviewer: It's a little unclear here which callbacks apply to which objects, maybe split this out into a "Subcription Callbacks" and "Publisher Callbacks" section? Are there callbacks that are common to both, or are there just matching pairs for each?

Author: There are just matching pairs, although the callbacks of each pair are very similar to each other.

Author: I have split the list into two separate lists, one for publisher callbacks and one for subscription callbacks.
